---
layout: post
title:  "Paying it forward"
author: Avneet
categories: [ Reflections ]
image: assets/images/book.jpg
---

# Paying It Forward

I always thought that I could only ever be in a position to contribute back to society, to make make an impact, a difference, if I’m ever wealthy enough. Admittedly, there was no set number that I had in mind, I assumed I’d know it was enough if I ever got there.

The other day when I was driving back from my doctor’s office, I passed by the Mountain View community shuttle van. It’s a can providing a free transportation service provided by the city of Mountain View, with 10 or so stops, including the Caltrain station. At my first job in the Bay Area in 2017, I would walk a little over 20 minutes from my rental apartment to get to the train station to get to the office in downtown San Jose. The mile walk was mostly fine except for days which were very hot or cold, hence I was glad to find that the community shuttle had a stop about a 4 minute walk from where I stayed. I recall I started taking the shuttle to and from the station most days. That’s how I met Carlos, one of the assigned drivers for that route. He was Mexican, likely in his late 40’s with a slight belly and a warm smile on his face as he greeted the passengers on the shuttle. I don’t even recall how we got to talking but it was likely because I was one of a handful of passengers on that route, often the only one. It started off as niceties, with him wishing me a a good day when he dropped me off in the morning and asking me about how my day was in the evenings. Initially I’d just reply absent-mindedly that it was good but I actually started giving it some more thought after a few more days of this routine. His genuine interest in something that happened at work along with with his jovial nature made even an introvert like me open up to this stranger. In just a few months, we built a really good rapport. After tough days at work, which there were plenty of at that first job, I’d be slightly disappointed if Carlos wasn’t the shuttle driver who showed up that evening. 

We started sharing more about our lives with each other, him about his son who just got out of jail, his wife, the very aggressive dog he had recently become an unwilling owner for. I shared more about how I came to the US, my mum and how I desperately wanted to have a dog myself someday. On days when I was the only passenger in the evening, he would slightly alter the bus route so he could drop me right outside my apartment complex, instead of at the bus stop, a practice which would be frowned upon if his supervisor were to ever find out. This small act was a great kindness though, especially on cold winter evenings with temperatures being as low as 4 degrees celsius when even a short walk felt like braving a mile. “I’ve told the other guy to drop you off here, I’ll be out tomorrow”, he would often inform me. We’d developed a sweet friendship, in the confines of that daily 10 minute bus ride. I remember giving him some sweets my mom had brought from India, he was pleasantly surprised. Eventually, after about a year of taking the shuttle, I finally leant how to drive and bought my first car. I started taking the shuttle less and less, trying to get some practice by driving to and from work. I remember talking with my mom about taking the shuttle one day, to go meet Carlos, give him some sort of parting gift as a token of my gratitude, but some or the other reason that never really happened and I never saw him again.

Passing the shuttle on my way home that day, I tried looking closely, hoping to see Carlos, by some miracle, 6 years since I last met him. No such luck, just that it got me feeling nostalgic. I smiled to myself, hoping he’s doing good, wherever he might be now. This made me have a very conscious realization of how small acts of kindness can go a long way having the power to leave an everlasting impression on the receiver. 

Maybe there’s more than one way to give back, to make an impact on someone, make someone’s life easier or better. I’m writing this note as a reminder for myself to keep my eyes open for such opportunities, hopefully you’ll do the same.